eggs from rescued chickens that live
like in someone's backyard and they're
well cared for they're treated like like
you would treat a dog or a cat right
what would be the harm so I appreciate
that your channel discusses
domestication of animals in a way that
other vegans do not discuss it I don't
think I thought about it as much as I
did after I saw your channel but I did
think about it how it's so inconsistent
that at the time I was living with cats
in my house so I would feed them meat
and it felt very wrong it felt strange
and also the fact that they are just in
your house and not able to roam free
where I was living was an apartment they
were not able to go outside and you know
even walk in the grass or anything a bad
news yen so feeding them meat did not
feel right and then you know I saw your
channel and more of the discussion about
just captivity in general and I thought
that was really interesting because
nobody sees it that way people see it as
you love your animals you love your pets
you're treating you're giving them a
better life than what they could you're
rescuing them from a bad situation that
they could be living in and I just
thought that that was really interesting
so you know I was explaining to my
sister-in-law how I have these more this
moral quandary with I am living with
these cats but I don't feel like it is
right for me to be living with cats or
just keeping them in captivity and she
said she felt the exact opposite she
thought that because we have the
capability because they have the
resources to feed animals then we should
rescue as many animals as possible she
actually felt guilty for not having any
pets at the time they have a newborn
baby so she was saying it's not quite
the right time to have it you know have
a pet but in the future they hope to
adopt and you know rescue and adopt
animals yeah so it is just an
interesting conversation with her she
said you know why would you not think
that having pets would be better if you
are you know a vegan and you care about
animals and want them to be in a good
situation why would you not keep them in
your home like I think it is really
common for people to just think that
this is how it should be this is how
animals are happy there had
just with my loving caregiver as a human
but to stick with that with that example
did the conversation go anywhere after
that it did just kind of stop like there
was nowhere further but to go you know
we started talking about farm animals
too because I said I don't think it's
right for me to treat one animal as food
for another so cows as food for cats
right that to me that's just
inconsistent and I can't really justify
it
so she said whoa oh you could have a you
could have a pet that's an herbivore you
could have a cow we could have a pet cow
I mean we did talk about our I told her
about irrational that would be to
actually try to have a pet cow as I was
living in an apartment at the time put
the cow in the bathroom yeah but you
would not have to feed it me but I still
said you know I still would not think
it's right to have a pet cow but it is
it is an interesting question to me it's
you know because there are these farm
sanctuaries where cows are taken and
when they cannot be put back in the wild
what are you supposed to do with these
animals that do get rescued from from a
factory farm well the word natural the
adjective natural is a shorthand for a
lot of very complex thoughts and ideas
but I think a lot of people if you had a
cow in your apartment their immediate
reaction be to say well that's unnatural
if you had a sheep or uh you know goat
in your apartment they'd say that's
unnatural
but they see a dog and they think that's
that's natural and I've gotten long
emails from people defending the idea
that like somehow dogs are evolved to
live on your carpet like this like
they're really engaging in a
naturalistic fallacy or just because
something is socially perceived as
normal that therefore it's natural I
think that puts veganism on the same
footing as the meat eaters the same way
meat eaters can say hey for thousands of
years we've done this
therefore it's natural therefore it's
normal and there's a sense in which I
agree with meat eaters you know eating
turkey at Thanksgiving is normal I also
want you to stop you know like yeah
but it's not a net it's not natural what
we do to animals no no days I mean the
just the domestication must have been
very difficult we were talking about why
or just the other day like they're very
mmm you know hard to deal with they're
not easy to domesticate animals I don't
think sure they seemed well okay look I
mean you know obviously there are a lot
of fallacies and naturalistic thinking
and in terms of ethics I don't think
we're ever talking about what's natural
we're talking about doing the best that
you can which is a very different set of
criteria what's the best I can do for a
cow or what have you if you do rescue
account but in one word you used in your
own description of that conversation
there is just captivity it's hilarious
to me that that that concept is
completely missing from the the whole
rhetoric of so you're contrasting
sanctuaries and rescues and pets and
companions so it's not your captive it's
your it's your companion you know
because when you at least when I was
when I was really young we had a kitten
and we had two kittens and you can see
it it's not it's not your companion it's
not your friend you're teaching it out
to be a certain way you're teaching
infinitely your life as a human how to
put into your apartment or your house
yeah yeah yeah did you where to pee and
we're not to be right yeah Rick and
Morty episode with the dog they stick it
in sticking in space it's Pete Rick and
Morty is a comedy TV show but has a
number of episodes that are bizarrely
provegan or talk about I should've eaten
animal rights issues for whatever reason
yet yeah so when you're first training a
cat or a dog to live indoors you have to
train it to not pee indoors and then do
pretty unnatural for a dog or any animal
you know it's unnatural fur so natural
for a zebra yeah I don't know if I can
get the zebra to live my father
yes so you have to train a dog and I
don't think that you would train a
companion ideally you would not train
your friend to be your friend so I mean
big is a natural vegan we can cut in the
the clips here she has this line of
argument where she says keeping a dog as
a pet
is just as moral as keeping a hen a
chicken as a pet and eating its eggs
love it like a dog like love's right so
her whole line of reasoning is it is
morally acceptable to keep a dog in
captivity in perpetuity until it dies to
castrate it she's argued at length that
castrating a dog is not causing it any
suffering how you define suffering that
way I have no idea
a lot of mental and moral gymnastics on
here but taking domesticated animals as
her standard domesticated from the most
familiar domesticate animals namely dogs
and cats she then extends that to
slightly less familiar animals like
chickens and says therefore it's
perfectly fine to keep a chicken in
captivity and she does this it's a mode
of reasoning out of a name for by
basically saying hypothetically if you
were in the chickens position how would
you feel that's we could call it
sympathetic reasoning how would I feel
if I were in the chickens position I
mean sometimes that's a useful mode of
thought and sometimes it can be
profoundly misleading so she offers the
argument in isolation if she were the
chicken she wouldn't care that these you
know hairless biped Apes were eating her
period secretions eating her her eggs
just so long as those hairless apes were
loving toward her and so on I find this
a really tortuous and impossible
impossible to defend line of reasoning
and know you can ask yourself if you
were being held captive because that's
what nobody we're talking about
captivity it can be a cage it can be
cageless it can be free it can be a you
know a wooden hut in your backyard
you're talking about holding a hen in
captivity and the nature of the
captivity can't be understood by
contrasting it to the more familiar
captivity we keep dogs and cats
which is why of reasons but you have to
contrast it to how that animal
would live in the wild what would be the
natural behaviors of a chicken in the
wild and I just googled it before making
this video it ain't hard to Google hard
you can you can look up what do wild
chickens look like how do they live
how do jungle fowl exist in the jungles
of Indonesia or Cambodia for that matter
other places I'm more familiar with but
you know how do they live
what are the behaviors I have seen them
running around you know they they run
around and catch small insects like
crickets which can be quite inspiring to
see it's quite an elegant set of
predatory behaviors they have I've seen
them in the jungle defending their own
chicks you know if they feel you're too
close to them you get the the mother hen
walking with the line of chicks behind
her she's quite quite a striking sight
and you know still to this day the
fighting the fighting chicken is
the the national symbol of France
they're known for being quite proud
pugnacious confident birds little bird
little they're birds that will start a
fight with a fully grown human kind of
thing same with turkeys turkeys are like
that too with a conic be territorial and
they won't they won't behave as if
they're afraid of you
ironically weasel or chicken they mean
coward in English today but they were
known for their their bravery and of
course they're known for fighting one
another having these complex social
behaviors they've complex mating
behaviors where the males offer food to
the females and males fight other males
to show who's the better mate and so on
this whole world of social and
instinctual behaviors is what chickens
are cut off from in their captivity in
your backyard and we have a natural
vegan sadly there's a direct quote she
simply asks what's the harm what would
be the harm what's the harm of having of
having a chicken occasion and I mean
again I think she's really engaging in
sophistry in the truest sense and the
ancient Greek sense of sophistry it's a
this is a misleading argument to say
well if we're not harming a dog by doing
this to a dog therefore were also not
harming a chicken by doing this to a
chicken and you know in a sense I agree
because I think we are harming the dog
we're harming a dog to cut its testicles
off and we're harming a chicken to give
it this life in captivity
and she does I've seen her repeatedly
engaged in this line of thinking when
she justified giving cats a hysterectomy
you know fixing cats will remove all the
reproductive organs of cats which
totally changes their behavior totally
changed their character and their
hormones due to an amazing extent and
her line of reasoning was if she was in
the cat's position she would prefer to
have this hysterectomy but you prefer to
be fixed rather than to feel sexual
desire and not be able to satisfy not
not everyone feels that way yeah like if
I've got to spend the rest of my life in
jail
reow there's a real question would in
solitary confinement or only with
medicine would I rather be castrated or
not I would take or not you know it's
it's a really bizarre or question but
even in framing the question that way
you you dislocated the ethical issue
from the real context of how this animal
would live in the wild I'm not saying
the life of a cat in the wild is great
yeah this issue of being loved comes up
again again so you have like a sheep as
a pet and you share it and you and you
where it's it's waste again we're
talking about essentially a waste
product it's something that would go to
waste if it were not used again if
assuming that the the sheep that the
animal is well cared for and loved and
all of that and not harmed what is the
harm what is wrong with that situation
eggs from rescued chickens that live
like in someone's backyard and they're
well cared for they're treated like like
you would treat a dog or a cat right I
think a really good example would be
again a backyard hen you know having a
hen who produces unfertilized eggs and
then consuming those eggs assuming the
Hinn is well cared for and loved and all
of that kind of stuff what would be the
harm do we really think that a chicken
if a chicken could care that she would
care about us consuming her period why
would it be relevant to the chicken in
captivity whether or not it is loved by
these biped apes that tend to and eat
its eggs or
you want to say like if you're if you're
captive if you are a captive in prison
yeah your prison conditions matter and
so on
we don't justify prison because the
prisoners are loved by their prison
guards it's a relevant and surreal and
bizarre to offer that argument it just
makes no sense to me you know yes I was
going to say Tobias and unnatural vegan
I think they don't want veganism to come
off as crazy and I think when I was
talking to my sister-in-law about this
topic she did think it was a little
crazy that I was against having cats and
dogs in your house because it's so
common and it's so it seems natural but
I don't think this video I think is long
enough thing we can cut this up we have
a couple different videos on related
topics here but you know I you it's a
very good point where you say their
concern and how they address this is
vegans seeming crazy because I would say
my concern with this topic is vegans
actually being crazy and people have
sent me fan mail or feedback what do you
want to say messages to me were they
said that they really felt they were
more sane after adopting the position
explained on my channel because the
other positions they were they were
adopting previously before her my
channel they felt were crazy or
incoherent or self country or we're
driving them crazy and you see that
target means you see that you know I
have my criticism of Gary Yourofsky and
even though it sounds great at first
gary yourofsky claiming he literally
wouldn't kill a cockroach that he
wouldn't kill any insects that he
regards on one sex is beautiful he
regards insects basically as having a
soul and being equal to human human
beings and any other position as being
speciesism so one animal one soul and
equal rights for all that's that's his
position and he manages to make kind of
five-minute lecture on it that sounds
very appealing it sounds like you know
sounds like some forms of hinduism
frankly you know hinduism is a very
diverse religion by the way you know it
sounds very spiritual and appealing try
living with it try explained meat-eaters
what your actual program is try sitting
down with the Parks and Rec board in
Toronto and explaining what you don't
want them to kill rats because downtown
city parks can become overrun with rats
really quickly or you know my favorite
example is running
running an airport airports have to kill
birds you don't have birds flying to the
the aircraft engines it really isn't a
working philosophy of veganism or for
veganism even if maybe for you
personally that's how you arrived at
veganism in the first place it's not the
way vegan is we move move forward as a
movement and I said I think this is this
is true this question of sanity and
santa-santa it's drawing kind of two
levels there's an abstract level of does
the movement make sense on the whole let
me drive one hundreds of people are the
future but there's also just the
question of one person alone does this
make sense for me when I wake up in the
morning maybe when I have to kill
cockroaches inside my own apartment when
I have to answer questions in my own
life and a lot of the approaches to
veganism I don't really care whether or
not they look crazy from the outside I
care about whether or not they are crazy
whether or not they are driving people
crazy yeah but I do understand wanting
to become wanting veganism to become
more approachable so when you tell
people it's wrong that you have pets
well you know cats and dogs they can
live cats can live like 20 years if
they're in yes they're in Damascus City
so I do understand also the other the
emotional side to thinking that animals
are your companions because once they
are kind of whipped into shape but you
know I'm not saying sure everybody whips
their animals like but just when you
first have an animal is a very small
animal and training them to be your
companion at that point they seem like
you know it seems like you can look into
their eyes and they know who you are
they know you know how you're feeling so
I do understand humans thinking that
their animals are the companions and it
is a very emotional thing for a lot of
people I think so I can see that that um
that part of veganism for the outsider
with people would think it was crazy but
okay right but look at me I'm devoting a
lot of a lot of technically demanding
fields look crazy to an outsider are
things in science or physics or
what-have-you but really quick we can do
three contrasting examples chickens pigs
and then dogs dogs are the hardest I'm
putting them
but look if given half a chance chickens
domesticated chickens will revert to
living as wild chickens and there's
actually concern about this because when
they do get a chance that this is mostly
in Southeast Asia where the wild jungle
fowl was is native that they escaped
from farms and they'll go in and
interbreed with so domesticated chickens
will escape into the jungle they'll
interbreed with the wild jungle fowl
don't lay eggs together you want to put
this
they'll revert to wild behaviour they'll
go back to sow and they're they're happy
to do it it's what they want to do they
don't want to live in a steel cage
because you know this is they're back in
a social setting where they interact
with other members of their own species
not with a loving bipedal ape that pets
them on the head what the you think
that gesture even means this means
chickens don't pat each other on the
head they don't that's not how they
express affection within their own
species you know I mean it's pretty
weird you know eating its meals out of
the hand of a human being the same hand
that steals its eggs or makes a
headdress out of its feathers I don't
know what these people are doing with
these chickens
so you know it's given a chance they
will revert to the wild mobile avers no
pigs - long story short even the most
pathetic domesticated pigs you see these
very pink fat pigs that look like they
couldn't survive don't kill yourself all
over the world whether it's Australia or
Southeast Asia or the Philippines feral
pigs are so common as to be a menace
it's very very common that domesticated
pigs go feral that happens in some
states than us - I forget Virginia some
states solving a forest cover you get
examples of pigs going out and reverting
to wild behaviour Michigan's so that's
very clear and to me I think we really
need to appreciate the gravity of that
as vegans of what it means and what
indictment it is of the pet based parent
okay
now you come into the dogs and I think
it gets into exactly these kind of
precious delusions pet owners have that
they look into their dog and they know
what their dog wants and their dog
understands them and again petting the
dog on the head and the dog licking your
face I mean that's what does that mean
within dogs you know Jake Asli had a
great video talking about that the
actual significance in the wild of dogs
looking each other's face is very
different from what you might want to
believe it is and so on yeah it's
actually a sign of submission it's just
so uh what is it a gamma dog
looking the the alpha males face and
sons showing that yeah very
so it's them actually recognizing that
you're the boss yeah yeah yeah these
really strangely significant things
that's sure that's the relationship that
you have with an animal it's not a
companion relation it's it's not it's
not a companion it's your captive yeah
but I I see I think the number one
response I get on the issue of dogs is
well I can't just reintroduce my dog to
the forest right okay
now even if that's true is that the
point obviously we have so many pigs the
number of piggies and the billions on
this planet obviously we cannot
reintroduce all pigs to the forest you
know I don't even think we could we
could stop all the factors introduce one
percent of the pigs and I used to live
in Taiwan Taiwan has more pigs than
human beings they you know they even
produce a huge number of pigs taiwan has
basically no forest left
it's a tiny island there are a couple of
parks you know there a couple of habitat
reserves but there's no way you're gonna
liberate the pigs out of the factory
farms into the forest so I mean I
understand your point but do you
understand mine do you understand the
point that this pig in a cage on a
factory farm does not in its heart yearn
to be your pet on the carpet and doesn't
yearn to be liberated into a sanctuary
that is in many ways just a farm - the
slaughterhouse it's just a farm that
goes on forever and ever it's just
perpetuating its captivity but it's the
same conditions you get on a farm on
some farms it's obvious it's slightly
better than that than the worst farms
you know really to understand this
species and again see in a sense I think
that the concept of animal rights is
already misleading I can't say this pig
has a right to live in the forest I'm
just saying we have to understand and
think about this pig in that context of
what its life would be in the wild what
it is being deprived of and you know the
fact that I can't undo that privation it
doesn't justify any of these other any
of these other alternatives or
directions which have become bedrock for
the majority of vegans certainly
including a natural vegan who says again
and again
this is just about love this is just
about whether or not you love the animal
that's the only criterion that makes
this more alluring mall
we use animals and people for a
companionship for support
you know emotional support financial
support we don't consider these
practices exploitative or abusive when
we say that using a chicken for her eggs
in every situation is abusive even if
she has a loving home with food and
water and shelter and was rescued from
imminent death it sends a really
confusing message we're talking about
something that very clearly does not do
any harm to the animal and yet it's
wrong
drinking milk like drinking cow's milk
it could be another example of use
without exploitation yeah and I can see
how that line would lead to like you
said insanity because you feel like
nothing that you can do is enough we
were just listening enjoy yeah great
point like how you just you don't have
enough time or energy to save every
animal that is you know saved from a
factory farm rescue trimmer factory
rescue cats and dogs you don't nobody
has enough time and energy right to put
in all the effort that would take to
keep these animals in captivity so I
don't know I don't know what the answer
is but I don't think you know
encouraging everybody to rescue animals
is the answer of it in a sense of what
we're debating here is not what are the
answers we're debating what are the
questions cuz I mean that's the ultimate
I have this really from my perspective
deep divided to myself in a natural
vegan but we're endorsing the same
answer we're just asking different
questions were formulating it in a very
different way with I think different
implications and outcomes well but isn't
her answer having chickens as backyard
hens in the last video on consent I
included this quote it's not wrong to
use any being human or non-human animal
for your own ends as long as that use
doesn't compromise their own ends saying
it is without valid explanation is what
makes veganism look irrational this is
posing the argument by suggesting a
parallelism between the ethics of how we
treat humans and how we treat animals so
the most fundamental premise here is it
not wrong to use any human for your own
ends I think I don't know what planet
you're living on like I think there were
all kinds of gray areas in exactly you
know she's talking about using she goes
on to say using people and animals for
companionship you really don't think
that's a morally murky area I do
and specifically what she's talking
about is using a person or an animal in
captivity for companionship or possibly
as a protein source etc you know you're
talking about the exceptions to veganism
or talking like generally the exceptions
for eggs or you know it gets ok to eat
eggs from your backyard hens or begin
this clip I'm not quite sure where it's
from I think that is the point I think
is what are the exceptions to veganism
that make veganism morally incoherent
her basic premise in this series of
videos is that veganism is not morally
tentative it's not morally tenable the
purpose of these videos is to explain
what it means to be a tentative vegan
and why tentative veganism as a moral
position makes sense
whereas veganism as a moral position it
does not further going to clarify that
that she is against dogmatism in
veganism whereas her own position is
allegedly non-dogmatic and his end is
pragmatic as opposed to I completely
reject that I don't see how you can say
it's pragmatic to raise chickens in your
backyard what's what is pragmatic about
that and the excuses she makes for
raising truth where she says it's
dogmatic for us to say eating eggs is
wrong even if they are chickens in your
backyard I don't think that is dogmatic
that may be a bit of a shorthand that
maybe you know it may not be including
what we call desert island scenarios and
veganism really extreme and bizarre
scenarios but no I think it's completely
consistent and indeed pragmatic to say
no even if you rescue hens don't eat
their eggs and to say even if you rescue
hens you're still keeping them in
captivity in conditions that are so
bizarrely far removed from the life that
chicken would lead in the forest that we
have to regard it as sub a chicken and
the same weekend up with subhuman
additions these are sub check-in
conditions that's why again with the
wildlife management paradigm I often
point to zoos as being much more of a
positive example than most vegans want
to omit to themselves a zoo that really
makes an effort to give penguins habitat
that resembles their wealth of course
it's not perfect it's not actually
Antarctica they don't actually have free
rooms when I've been in zoo enclosures
that try to give birds free you know it
ultimately had a dome on the top but
give them enough space that they could
fly around a bit you know I've seen that
also with butterflies a butterfly
enclosure really bizarre it's a little
bit surreal this is a simulated
environment those I think are the
questions if for any reason you did have
to rescue animals and keep them in
captivity who certainly happens with
endangered species unlikely to chase
with the domesticated chicken those are
the questions I'm asking or how closely
can you can you come and instead she's
asking this set of questions that I
found really disturbing and misguided
yeah I think it's important for us to
discuss these things it doesn't make
veganism look irrational it's trying
we're trying to come to a conclusion
about what veganism is or you know what
just have discussions about these things
it makes mecanism more no no just the
other day we were listening to Tobias
say that veganism is not there yet for
somebody to say someone is at a dinner
and the person hosting the dinner makes
a casserole that has mayonnaise and you
say to the you know you say to the
person holding the dinner oh this isn't
vegan it has mayonnaise so he says that
it's crazy it's crazy to refuse he says
he says this is bad for veganism and
it's bad for how vegans are perceived to
insist no I can't eat this casserole
it's not vegan
yeah because veganism isn't there yet
yes not it's it's not a movement that
people in in yeah you mentioned like
what people say that about being gay you
know you can't write you wouldn't you
wouldn't tell your parents that you're
gay because we're just not there yet
like somebody had at one point say yes
it is it's there there whatever the hell
that means it's it's there yet is yeah
it's not there yet isn't the valid
excuse anymore
vegans have to stand up for you know
their convictions and what they believe
and it only gets wrong for well well
well and and does it does it make
veganism look more or less irrational
yeah like what's irrational but say no
this is the definition this is the
definition of veganism therefore eating
this casserole is not vegan
this is the definition of veganism
therefore eating this chicken egg is not
vegan why is that irrational or why does
that make veganism look irrational you
know we can talk about it in a rational
or an irrational way but this is really
really basic definition of veganism
stuff yeah and if if veganism is not
there yet it's never gonna get there
wherever there is or whatever that means
with this kind of excuse making I just
don't see how that's good for the
movement we don't consider these
practices exploitative okay so do we use
people in captivity
for companionship and emotional support
I mean to me I think you actually could
cuz I you know I used to study Korean a
jib way and we did have stories you know
apparently completely true stories of
human beings who had friendships with
wild animals in the forest because they
were in the tiny minority of Canadians
who actually spend enough time in the
force that they just see the same animal
again and again over years you know look
oh yeah that's that otter who lives down
in that part of the but where they
really didn't know animals and to some
extent like interact with animals
without domesticating them without
having them in captivity and where there
is a kind of companionship like you know
there's a kind of kinship or even select
with with things like otters I think the
human would be catching fish when she
cut up the fish and throw some of the
fish to the otter we had this kind of so
I've read stories from Korean a Ghibli
people really living on the trapline
Rivet living in the forest who had those
kinds of interactions okay that's one
thing maybe you can compare that to
human companionship a casual
acquaintance the human being you use in
the sense but if I have a cue me the
example she's using if I have a human
being and I keep them in captivity so I
can cut off their hair and make sweaters
what weight you know and you think this
makes veganism look less irrational so
it's okay when you do it to humans
that's okay to do pet it's not okay when
you do it to humans and the rationale
given it would never be applied to human
beings being kept in captivity so you
have like a sheep as a pet and you share
it and you and you where it's it's waste
again we're talking about essentially a
waste product something that would go to
waste if it were not used and you use it
to make I don't know knit some gloves
out of or something again if assuming
that the the sheep that the animal is
well cared for and loved and all of that
and not harmed what is the harm what is
wrong with that situation and the the
rationale given that would never be
applied to human beings being kept in
captivity humans be cut off from their
natural surroundings or whatever social
situation they would be in if they were
not in captivity I just mentioned that
the other day that I was saying if you
know for your your daughter don't get
too personal
okay I think you know so for a vegan
that doesn't believe in domestic
domestication of animals if they have
kids they want to tell their kids no you
know we can't get you a puppy we can't
get you a kitten because it's wrong and
it would be difficult to explain to a
child why it would be wrong yeah but you
know in Victoria our just whatever we
could go to a Harbor and see the same
seals that is true but I guess captivity
is is the crucial word that's missing
from this discussion of domestication
because we all recognize the difference
between paying money to go in a boat to
see whales in the ocean
yeah and trapping whales and putting
them in a giant swimming pool and
holding them in captivity right why
can't we recognize that with dogs and
cats and pigs and everything else you
don't have you know if you go and visit
you know a wolf pack though there's no
comparison whatever whatever a sense of
companionship you get out of seeing
wolves or bison roaming over the land I
wouldn't call that companionship but I
don't see in this concept of
companionship a rationale for
domestication a rationale for captivity
a rationale for castration and
flying and all the other things that
come with it in every situation is
abusive even if she has a loving home
with food and water and shelter and was
rescued from what does that mean shelter
a loving home a loving home oh where the
dog can't pee where a cat has to pee in
a box just Google you know red
junglefowl the wild form of the chicken
why what what is a loving home to a
chicken a chicken wants to live with its
own species it wants to meet with males
of the species it wants to raise its own
children and walk around the forest and
catch wild insects and live that life it
doesn't want a loving home but you know
owned by a bunch of hairless bipedal
Apes feeding it out of a can it's it's
just ridiculous a loving home it's an
emotional response to say that I don't
know because we're used to seeing
animals in the house or use the same I
don't know a loving oh but it's it's a
lot it's a human loving home being
provided for I'm like how you would
treat children yeah it's not like a
loving family okay just today we were
walking down the street we walked past a
restaurant and we saw a bunch of birds
in cages you know words because people
here in China they keep birds in cages
as pets and they put them outdoors so
the birds can get some fresh air during
the day right and you were a bit shocked
and horrified at it I'm a bit more used
to it okay
does that bird have a loving home from a
human perspective maybe the answer is
yes because the humans say they love
this animal and then they feed it and
bathe it and they bring it to the vet
when they get sick so from a human
perspective that's loving home from a
bird's perspective does the bird ever
get to fly does the bird ever get to
build a nest does the bird ever get to
compete with other members of its
species to mate and then mate with other
members of species does it get to evade
its own predators and maybe prey on
other animals you know all that range of
natural instincts and behaviors
that's what matters not a loving home
and I don't know maybe you can look at a
bird that has its own nest and say
that's a loving home for you in the wild
maybe there is a meaningful sense in
which a bird can have a loving home but
it ain't this any my living room it's a
totally or irrelevant set of criteria
whether it's applied to a you know a
flying bird or a flightless bird like a
chicken or a dog or a pig but this this
to me is a kind of deep sickness and if
your concern of natural vegan is with
vegans appearing irrational
why can't you recognize what's
irrational about this this to me is
insane and yet it's wrong
just be weary of framing so we've seen
this just really briefly but she defines
the word harm however was convenient for
her so she says that cutting the
testicles off a dog doesn't harm the dog
she said that deadpan serious so
obviously she the same way she's willing
to define suffering anyway that's can be
in for argument she's willing to buy
harm in any way that's convenient for
his argument again I just have to appeal
to please take the time actually Google
what the life of a wild chicken looks
like and ask yourself white as you're
making these excuses for keeping a
chicken in a cage in a hutch in a
backyard
pen whatever it is and you're not
looking at the reality of what life
would be like for that animal in the
wild because depriving them of that life
is doing them harm and I think that's
totally easy for us to understand the
same way that you can't say by putting a
human being in jail you're doing them no
harm even if you put them in jail where
they're given food and shelter and a
loving warden you know I mean like it's
just ridiculous to say well I didn't do
any harm you're depriving them of
another life a life in the wild or a
life in some kind of social standard of
what's normal look at analogy
any come it will be eaten by other
rodents by vultures just leave it it's
going to decompose sure what what about
the bears in the forest that might hold
on food but also our research bears are
we such vultures do we actually have no
other moral or even aesthetic standards
that that make us better than bears and
vultures cuz you know that I think there
are other considerations there sure and
you know why is it that everything
simple is dogmatic in her view very
often simple guidelines are pragmatic I
think yeah maybe it is a simplification
to say vegans never eat animal flesh
because we can come up with a desert
island scenario we can come up with
roadkill scenarios we can come up with
some really weird scenarios maybe that's
if it doesn't mean it's dogmatic if
that's pragmatic yeah sure you know then
there's some fine print there are some
footnotes but come on it's nothing bad
about that well you just mentioned that
you're depriving them of I don't even
know whatever life they would have what
is it and why this is the one situation
where speciesism matters right so we
wouldn't say that about aalayam so
you've rescued this lion so now it's
okay to keep it as domesticate an animal
for its whole life hey I rescued it from
hunters so it's okay to put it in the
zoo it's okay to put it in the circus or
it's okay for me to keep it in my own
living room to delight my guests which
has happened historically by the way so
recently the night as recently the 1960s
people used to own lions as pets in the
Western world they still do in the
Middle East it's still fairly
fashionable in Arab countries and as you
say you can google it now it's still
fairly fashionable in leopards and lions
and some of the other big cats so I'm
sorry I'm not stereotyping but this
actually is talking about the Arab world
as a unit the culturally that's that's
still a phenomenon right now owning
those those cats so if I mean so what's
the difference you bought it from a
breeder or for someone trapped in the
forest as opposed to you rescued it no
matter which way you look at it owning
that Ocelot or that tiger or that
leopard in your living room for your
amusement for your companionship is
wrong wrong wrong but we don't think
that way about wolves we don't think
that way about dogs we don't think that
way about cats they're just more
familiar and yet it does seem strange
and bizarre and wrong when we even talk
about having a goat in your own home
which is also domesticate an animal is
it what do you what do you mean how can
this gold ever be happy in your living
room or in your backyard or in your
apartments how can a cat ever be happy
this is a bizarre and again unnatural in
this context natural is worth talking
about you have to cut the balls off the
cat you have to tear out its hormonal
system it's you know you have to declaw
it you're making all these physical and
behavioral modifications the em1 forcing
it to pee in a plastic box for what and
you know what how how did how does the
fact of rescue justify any of those
other ethical decisions for me it
doesn't whether we're talking about a
lion or we're talking about a cat cats
are simply more familiar and that is
speciesism
that is the question vegans ask again
again when they say they contrast a dog
to a pig and say why do you love one and
and kill the other so you have like a
sheep as a pet and you share it and you
and you where it's it's waste again
we're talking about essentially a waste
product something that would go to waste
if it were not used and you use it to
make I don't know knit some gloves out
of or something so this is basically
exactly the same argument I presented
with chickens a minute ago but I think
there's a sense here in which Gary Fran
Sione's critique of meat eaters that
meat eaters just regard animals as
objects or property actually applies to
vegans you just regard this sheep as an
object like a piece of furniture you can
put in your house and keep you don't
think of it in terms of the complex
social interactions that it would have
in its own herd you know that it would
have in the wild and after watching this
I just went to google and put in wild
sheep nothing else and you get a lot of
really eye-opening information take a
look at what you're depriving the sheep
up this sheep is not an object it has
parents and its parents have
grandparents going back a million years
it has a million years of behavior in
the wild that really do dictate what a
life of dignity would be for the sheep
and that includes all the stuff I've
already mentioned this video competition
within the species interactions with the
opposite sex and with the same sex and
living in a herd and there's a social
hierarchy and they're all these
behaviors and so on and you are
depriving the Sheep of all of those
things even if it is in a loving home
you think of it like an object like a
piece of furniture you can just add your
house and as she asked he says what's
the harm well if you don't see it in the
context of how they would live in the
wild you don't see that you're
abstracting this from you're removing
this from the context in which that
sheep would have a meaningful life with
its own species and competing to survive
and doing all the things that are the
whole range of behaviors and instincts
that are meaningful for a sheep what's
the harm the harm is exactly in
destroying all those things for the
Sheep it's it's a very strange and sick
line of reasoning and it's the strangest
thing to me is that so many vegans find
it convincing I don't understand why
this video especially given that it
starts by saying that veganism is
morally incoherent in contrast our
position I don't know why more vegans
weren't offended by that or didn't just
react with it I've had emails of people
who agree with me on this but there's
nothing about this that's seductive or
appealing or even useful for vegans so I
just don't I don't see why there are
thousands and tens of thousands of
people who within veganism backup this
position to us to my perspective it only
makes our position weaker and worse
oh but vegan vegan sweaters though you
really you really think there's like a
pragmatic outcome here where vegans can
start producing wool because it comes
from a loving home really like really is
that what you're driving at how do you
feel about pets do you think that
there's any difference between say
having a dog or having a you know
backyard rescued hen and consuming its
eggs do you see any difference between
the two because I I do not yeah that's
the point you don't see the other
friends they're both wrong ones bad and
the others evil
I see both relationships as mutually
beneficial assuming that the animals are
well cared for you know they're
receiving food and water and shelter and
nurture and you are receiving
companionship and eggs whatever else I
don't know maybe you shave your dog and
make little hats out of its fur I don't
know I think the main point is that
she's saying it's better than death so
living in a house with people is better
than death but she doesn't say that I
mean look you that's a stronger argument
that's not what she says because I mean
when she says this to me she makes this
excuse for companionship given that
you're providing them with food and
shelter and Walter water so what's up
human beings in prison if you're keeping
people in prison indefinitely I think
one of the only justifications that is
hey it's better than that and if they
were facing a death sentence and given
their choice would you rather be in
prison or die I think most of them some
people would choose death penalty but
they'll say okay that they'll take
captivity but no love does not justify
captivity not in any way now the type of
love that's meaningful for a sheep to
experience or for a cow to experience is
love within its own species it's not
being patted on the head by human beings
it's gonna be that sheep competing for
its place within the herd you know she
literally butt heads you know they have
all these bizarre ritualistic behaviors
no that's what's meaningful and
important to sheep it's not being petted
on that head by a by a bipedal you know
hairless ape it's totally irrelevant but
if you were taking human beings captive
and calling them and precedent and
saying well they provide me with
companionship this whole line of
reasoning would seem really sick and
demented although the argument you just
presented it's better than death if the
alternative is death I think that's
actually a stronger argument and for
sure sometimes with endangered species
that is the argument or saying we'll
look these are the last few members of
this free to bird or something so we're
going to put them we don't want them to
disappear so we're going to try to have
a captive breeding program but even then
the criteria that come into question are
how closely can we simulate what their
life in the wild would be and even if
you were talking about keeping a pet
privately I would ask that same question
okay so you're going to keep lions for
ever reason they whether they've been
rescued or shipwrecked I don't know what
crazy scenario you got a bunch of lions
I would say no the moral justification
is not that you love the Lions that's
irrelevant
not that you pad the minutes it's
nothing provide them with food and
shelter know how closely can you
approximate what their lives in the wild
would be and for penguins and lions and
even something like a cow that's
obviously a huge and difficult and
expensive question and sometimes I got
to tell you I think sometimes death is
preferable to what we do with animals
I'm not sure at all that being declawed
and castrated and held in captivity and
forced to pee in a plastic cubicle and
you know all the bizarre things we do
with that I think maybe death with
dignity I think that a short life in the
wild as a feral dog or a feral cat might
in many ways be better than what it is
that she has taken as the moral baseline
for how we should treat animals for what
she thinks it's right and good for
treating not only dogs and cats but all
other animals apparently including sheep
so that you can knit a hat out of their
hair see that's what that's the problem
I have with domesticated cats and dogs
because you can rescue like you were
saying there's only a couple of this
particular endangered bird left so let's
put them in captivity and the captive
breeding program so it's never that's
never going to be the case with cats and
dogs so I don't know that's that's my
opinion on it like I don't see how
continuing to keep these domesticated
breeds of cats and existences helping
anybody anybody or anything yeah is it
even good for the cats you know I think
also this is shallow and deep at the
same time but there's a really deep
misapprehension just said it was shallow
and deep at the same time look uh
unnatural vegan tends to criticize
slogans without recognizing that they're
just slogans so I mean he or she's
partly reacting to this slogan all uses
of use okay it's kind of a dumb slogan
but it's just a slogan like if you
scratch the surface with anyone who's
are literally wearing that t-shirt of
that button you're gonna find they have
a more sophisticated view about veganism
animal rights and so on we used to have
a slogan in the anti-war movement ban
the bomb
it's kind of a dumb slogan and if you
actually scratch the surface and talk to
those people they don't actually think
that the atom bomb is going to disappear
from the world they say well what we
want is for more countries to sign this
specific treaty and we want to have them
regulated by the United Nations and blah
blah blah so actually a really complex
geopolitical position of what you want
to do with nuclear weapons in the future
know so stated that simply I guess
nobody really believes in ban the bomb
stated that simply I guess nobody
believes in all uses of use but so what
is a slogan you know I just feel like
get over it are we are we addressing
slogans or we addressing real problems
in the vegan movement because I mean
like you know gary yourofsky's position
on insects is not just a slogan and you
know the position of vegans and what
unnatural vegan is doing here with
taking domesticated animals as the moral
baseline instead of wild animals that's
not just a slogan
that's a deep-seated belief and we get
to see how it shapes all the other steps
of her approach to a new and advocacy
for veganism yeah okay great that's a
wrap
[Music]
ba Lu Cl